README.md, before:

# MLXBusFleet_DataAnalysis

# Project Overview
This project analyzes GTFS (General Transit Feed Specification) data for Metrolinx bus operations using Python and pandas.
It demonstrates clean software design principles such as separation of concerns, modularity, and reproducible data analysis.
The analysis includes:
- Loading GTFS .txt files into pandas DataFrames
- Basic data exploration and aggregation
- Determination of trip counts per route for a given day
- Identification of busiest routes
- Identification of Peak-hour stops with highest arrivals analysis
- Estimation of average trip durations per route

# How to Run the Project
- Local Execution
- From the project directory:
  python main.py

# Screenshots of the code sections

<img width="1166" height="809" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b52d17c4-3136-4ee4-b916-eda34f81a228" />

<img width="1236" height="666" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5eddc62d-a0f8-4a13-ada7-0cfc67c0c533" />

<img width="1143" height="714" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/553c4c34-37ef-46d2-8a80-a2d04f78516a" />

<img width="1120" height="439" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1ccd5d39-7d02-4366-8441-2be28a7eb802" />

<img width="1735" height="710" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/98b86ec7-e1bc-4652-8778-4b7b0c925d65" />

<img width="1418" height="563" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c36665cf-0cb6-4fb3-a2e9-5fba4abcc162" />

<img width="1032" height="705" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/30054713-60ba-4000-932e-9c3cbfc648f4" />

<img width="1522" height="729" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/018a9f10-7605-407e-9258-37e4bfef3014" />

<img width="1449" height="607" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/739b7f85-897f-4447-aa64-1c16b309a792" />

<img width="1635" height="512" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fdf56dfb-db81-4fd5-bd49-c94f0cb3a7f2" />


# Screenshots of the results to report on

<img width="1011" height="656" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/90500261-1e74-480c-9610-f6bd5a202824" />

<img width="679" height="669" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b73db718-e8f1-4ab2-bca6-5d0ab3fac0d9" />

<img width="664" height="618" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c1b5a83e-f72d-4b8a-809b-ca2451fc8189" />

<img width="703" height="566" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/55e40368-f948-4e00-829b-87ec3f7b29eb" />

<img width="1150" height="731" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b3bc6dd8-c2f8-4935-8c78-31eb76f8a1db" />

<img width="1107" height="483" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/697aec27-622b-4b50-abe6-515c2b6d5f38" />

<img width="1106" height="635" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ef11e552-94c0-4232-abe5-cdfa7b73df51" />

<img width="1114" height="325" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1b15b539-b831-48ea-be9b-328a50745a0f" />

<img width="1684" height="326" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3b35ba8c-4da1-4b8e-8df1-df23e0770f05" />

Commit message:

Update README.md to add "Data cleaning"

README.md, after:

# MLXBusFleet_DataAnalysis

# Project Overview
This project analyzes GTFS (General Transit Feed Specification) data for Metrolinx bus operations using Python and pandas.
It demonstrates clean software design principles such as separation of concerns, modularity, and reproducible data analysis.
The analysis includes:
- Loading GTFS .txt files into pandas DataFrames
- Data cleaning
- Basic data exploration and aggregation
- Determination of trip counts per route for a given day
- Identification of busiest routes
- Identification of Peak-hour stops with highest arrivals analysis
- Estimation of average trip durations per route
- Identification of unusually long or short trip durations

# How to Run the Project
- Local Execution
- From the project directory:
  python main.py

# Screenshots of the code sections

<img width="1166" height="809" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b52d17c4-3136-4ee4-b916-eda34f81a228" />

<img width="1236" height="666" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5eddc62d-a0f8-4a13-ada7-0cfc67c0c533" />

<img width="1143" height="714" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/553c4c34-37ef-46d2-8a80-a2d04f78516a" />

<img width="1120" height="439" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1ccd5d39-7d02-4366-8441-2be28a7eb802" />

<img width="1735" height="710" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/98b86ec7-e1bc-4652-8778-4b7b0c925d65" />

<img width="1418" height="563" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c36665cf-0cb6-4fb3-a2e9-5fba4abcc162" />

<img width="1032" height="705" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/30054713-60ba-4000-932e-9c3cbfc648f4" />

<img width="1522" height="729" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/018a9f10-7605-407e-9258-37e4bfef3014" />

<img width="1449" height="607" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/739b7f85-897f-4447-aa64-1c16b309a792" />

<img width="1635" height="512" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fdf56dfb-db81-4fd5-bd49-c94f0cb3a7f2" />


# Screenshots of the results to report on

<img width="1011" height="656" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/90500261-1e74-480c-9610-f6bd5a202824" />

<img width="679" height="669" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b73db718-e8f1-4ab2-bca6-5d0ab3fac0d9" />

<img width="664" height="618" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c1b5a83e-f72d-4b8a-809b-ca2451fc8189" />

<img width="703" height="566" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/55e40368-f948-4e00-829b-87ec3f7b29eb" />

<img width="1150" height="731" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b3bc6dd8-c2f8-4935-8c78-31eb76f8a1db" />

<img width="1107" height="483" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/697aec27-622b-4b50-abe6-515c2b6d5f38" />

<img width="1106" height="635" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ef11e552-94c0-4232-abe5-cdfa7b73df51" />

<img width="1114" height="325" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1b15b539-b831-48ea-be9b-328a50745a0f" />

<img width="1684" height="326" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3b35ba8c-4da1-4b8e-8df1-df23e0770f05" />
